hey everyone Travis cafard here and I
have a very awesome opportunity right
now to talk to Brian Souza who is the
art lead for classic games at Blizzard
Entertainment and specifically we're
talking about starcraft remastered
correct yes industry so first off you
know one of the more interesting things
I learned whenever I did that initial
interview a couple months ago about the
announcement was that you actually were
involved in the first iteration of this
game can you talk to me a little bit
about that yes I have been working at
Blizzard for quite a while so I worked
on the original Starcraft and brood war
for StarCraft one I did mostly units
with su vida terran units and then was
one of the first cinematic artists I
guess you would say for StarCraft and
the company in general so worked on
cinematics for StarCraft and brood war
so what was it like for you to then go
back through time almost and in see all
the stuff again and and kind of revisit
it it was a great opportunity for me I
think when they first you know brought
up this fact that they were going to do
a remaster of Starcraft and the that I
had actually worked on the original
Starcraft
that I would be perfect for the one to
do this so it was really cool to go back
and look at you know the original and
640 by 480 and you're kind of you don't
see any details and they're like your
house doesn't look exactly like I
remember it and so our whole goal was
basically to make the game like how you
remembered it and I think we've come
really close to getting there yeah I
mean what what was it like I mean did
were there any flashback moments for you
as you're like going over stuff or is
you're kind of digging through all these
files and finding stuff I mean what was
the process of you know digging in and
actually starting to revive a revitalize
the stuff like there was a lot of that
because we've lost all of the original
assets for for Starcraft for the art
side anyway and so going through old
concepts that Sammy did you know I was
wrangling all the artists that I knew
had worked on the project and to see if
they had anything left over you know
that they had kept for 20 years and you
know looking at some of the things like
the original ghosts had six fingers
because he was you know genetically
modified and of course six fingers is
better than
and like those wriggling had little
hands on his back and the SCV was
supposed to be a transforming robot that
would go from a jet to a you know the
worker and you can kind of see it and I
really wanted to bring that out and the
the new HD stuff so if you look at the
SUV it has a little jet you know cockpit
and it looks like it could have
transformed at some point so that's kind
of stuffs really fun to look at like
they're almost like a you could almost
imagine like a lower thing where like
SUVs at one point almost we're going to
be able to do that this is what like the
Terrans have cobbled together I liked it
a lot and for you what were some of the
challenges on creating this because I
mean in in I'm sure in most situations
whenever you are working on a game and
dealing with the art direction for
something like this it's a lot of either
you know taking inspiration from a
previous title or from a previous world
and bringing out something new and this
you really had to stay true to the
template right so yeah what we had was
basically just in-game artwork so like a
lot of the first iterations were just
honing in what additional details do we
put in this HD artwork and keep the same
silhouette like we did a couple tests
where it was a little bit too much
Starcraft 2 and we had to bring it back
because like people immediately said
that doesn't like Starcraft and we said
okay what makes it look like Starcraft
and so we did a lot of like initial
iterations on how much detail does
they're good and how much details the
Protoss you know and then we kind of
brought that down to the point where
it's like if you go from sd to HD you
shouldn't see anything but crisping you
know like a focus on the unit rather
than something changing great like
putting glasses on and seeing it all all
come into focus and I know from talking
some of the other other guys on the team
and you know from that initial interview
that there was also a pretty strong
focus on competitive gaming and making
sure that you know this thing that has
become a sport to so many people it
retains that same level of
competitiveness and that everything is
the same from an artistic standpoint how
did you address you know those
challenges we actually did a lot of
tests in the beginning with as we were
getting new our work into the game to
see like what the reactions were and
finding out like this unit is too bigger
this unit is too small even though like
technically you're looking at it's not
that different they immediately would
say well his hitbox feels different he
doesn't look right you know it doesn't
feel like I'm selecting them click
correctly so we did a lot of you know
community effort of testing this out and
making sure that everything was just
artistic and it didn't affect the
gameplay I was most important and what's
really cool to me is that I saw you know
this build and some of the stuff you
guys announced a couple of months ago
and then you have a new build here and
actually this sounds like it's not the
artwork is still not done you guys are
adding some sort of lighting stuff and
even more to the game so our first goal
was to make the exact same game like
everything just up rezzed and then we
wanted to add a little bit more like all
options we don't want to make anybody
you know forced to play a certain way so
but we are adding like additional angles
on the units so that a unit that might
have had nine angles only they were
flipped now have 17 so that you know if
it's moving in a certain direction it's
going more in correct direction was
anything so just in terms of you know
what what's being added yeah lighting
and the biggest thing I think and which
actually improves the look of the game
is we did a complete lighting pass we
added depth maps we added brightness
maps we added emissive normals
everything so that we can actually add
like kind of a fake lighting and the
unit's feel like they're 3d so if a
light goes over it you know that gets
the shine off the normal maps and it
looks really cool so for like the layman
whenever they see you know because
obviously a lot of different stuff you
guys are adding here what does that mean
for someone whenever all this lighting
effects come in you know what what will
the experience be for them so in
StarCraft let's say just normal HD a
flip sort of explosion the explosion is
an animation it's a sprite and it
doesn't really affect the artwork around
it we're adding a lighting to that which
will lighten up the area and also the
buildings in new units around the
explosion and also we added depth so
that the it's not just overlaid on top
of or behind but it's actually kind of
intersecting
the other meshes even though it's not a
message it's just a 2d image so it gives
that illusion of depth so taking a step
back from the art side maybe you can
talk to what it was like being on this
team and like the whole team's sort of
adventure into this endeavor
I hear this was just like 18 months ago
that you guys really started this so
what has it been like being a part of
this team and and I think you know one
of the few instances where a game
company has gone back to a product that
is this old but still the special to so
many people and really try to bring it
up for you know all those people that
have really enjoyed it and probably even
a new audience as well I actually really
love the team it's it's really cool to
go back we have a relatively small team
as far as development teams go and just
having that camaraderie and the
closeness and yet everybody is very
important and everything matters kind of
to the point where like if you miss a
day and like something's to be done like
your day is really important to the
whole project so just having the
closeness again the excitement about
this game the people that are on the
team love it and they want to be part of
this team and it's like one of those
opportunities that not many people have
not many games out there are still
around after 20 years that you know that
people would want to play if you read
remaster them for me one of the
interesting things is that there's a lot
of people that play Starcraft 2 and I
assume a lot of people that play
Starcraft 2 but had never had a chance
to really enjoy brood war and maybe even
you know if they did have a chance they
just couldn't really get into it because
they're used to a different level of
game now right so on a personal note
like I'm here playing the game and
enjoying it also with me on my team is a
woman named avi Lee who was 2 years old
whenever this game first came out and
it's a it's a very different thing to
watch her play right so for you knowing
that you have these kind of two
different audiences people that have
played this game and remember it and
have all this missed algin and then
maybe people that have never played
brood war you know what are your hopes
for what the remaster will allow for
something like that I think remastering
it is like a big step of that that gap
like you said like some people you know
I would never think about buying a game
that came
the early 90s at this point right but
having that opportunity to you know redo
the the graphics you know make the
gameplay a little bit easier to get into
like the the ease of battlenet and like
getting together with your friends you
know kind of bringing all of that up to
today's standards is like a huge thing
but then we kept the original gameplay
it's like I think somebody said it's
like the chess of Korea or it's like
don't touch the gameplay you can have a
different test set but don't like you
know you can change what it looks like
we don't judge anything how it plays so
like we're trying to do that whole thing
we're going to trying to keep the you
know game exactly the same as it was but
you know bring it up so when you look in
on a big screen it's not like just 10
pixels you know the sort of wrapping
this up I know so much of the
conversation around circuitry master has
been around the competitiveness and
keeping the gameplay the same and all
that stuff which is very exciting but I
will admit you know despite being part
of a community and industry that tends
to focus so much on the multiplayer
aspect I am very excited about the
campaign because I remember you know
campaign was what got me into Starcraft
which was what got me in the competitive
gaming and and obviously the story is so
fantastic what can you tell us about
what the experience will be like on the
campaign side for all this and your
experience in developing this and
bringing it back we did focus a little
bit on the campaign there's there's a
few things that didn't necessarily make
sense if you played through the first
time and we had a screens of text that
would explain what's going on you know
like we have to fill this in so we're
taking those green screens out and
adding a little bit more like a two and
a half the animations to kind of give
the story a little more in depth in the
actual game rather than just giving you
text to read but in general all of the
the campaign's are the same and we're
kind of having the one flow of all six
campaigns right this is including
Starcraft and route over so it's all
together like in the other thing we
re-recorded a lot of the voices for not
for the English but for like German got
a revamp I think Italian maybe French
and then of course the the rest of the
eight language we added that's really
exciting I mean is there any what
there any interesting moments and going
back and you know tackling I don't I we
haven't seen any of the models yet I
don't think but for any of you know like
Rainer and Kerrigan and all these kind
of characters that people know even into
Starcraft 2 any interesting aspects of
going back from - those guys from an art
direction so that was one of the things
that we did have a little more leeway on
as the the single-player campaigns and
what the characters look like we didn't
want to necessarily rule out what the
characters are because that's what
people know like people know what James
Raynor looks like now and Kerrigan they
have an idea in their head so we took
the opportunity to to take the originals
and revamp them to look more like the
Starcraft 2 characters just so there's a
little more continuity between the two
games very good well hey is there
anything that you want to say to any of
the fans that are super set about circa
remastered and eagerly awaiting that
August date for it to come out well I
hope you all like it
we've really put our heart into this one
and this is all for the fans and the the
people that have continued to play the
game for 20 years I'm you know
speechless that a game that I worked on
20 years ago is still being played today
and I hope you guys love it
I'm excited maybe the revamp will allow
for another 20 years to go and just
continue you'll come back to this again
and and again and again and again and
just have to just Groundhog Day your way
through this this game yeah very good
well thank you so much for the interview
yeah really appreciate hey I'm not
running ads on any of these videos
because all of you are ad blocking them
anyway so if you want to support me you
could do so over at Travis Khafre comm
slash support